toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/preferences.rst, before:

Preferences
===========

Telemetry behaviour is controlled through the preferences listed here.

Default behaviors
-----------------

Sending only happens on official builds (i.e. with ``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL`` set) with ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` defined.
All other builds drop all outgoing pings, so they will also not retry sending them later.

Preferences
-----------

``toolkit.telemetry.unified``

  This controls whether unified behavior is enabled. If true:

  * Telemetry is always enabled and recording *base* data.
  * Telemetry will send additional ``main`` pings.

``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

  If ``unified`` is off, this controls whether the Telemetry module is enabled.
  If ``unified`` is on, this controls whether to record *extended* data.
  This preference is controlled through the `Preferences` dialog.

  Note that the default value here of this pref depends on the define ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` and the channel.
  If ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` is set, ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT`` gets set, which means this pref will default to ``true``.
  This is overridden by the preferences code on the "beta" channel, the pref also defaults to ``true`` there.

``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``

  Send the data we record if user has consented to FHR. This preference is controlled through the `Preferences` dialog.

``toolkit.telemetry.archive.enabled``

  Allow pings to be archived locally. This can only be enabled if ``unified`` is on.

``toolkit.telemetry.server``

  The server Telemetry pings are sent to.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.level``

  This sets the Telemetry logging verbosity per ``Log.jsm``, with ``Trace`` or ``0`` being the most verbose and the default being ``Warn``.
  By default logging goes only the console service.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.dump``

  Sets whether to dump Telemetry log messages to ``stdout`` too.

Data-choices notification
-------------------------

``toolkit.telemetry.reportingpolicy.firstRun``

  This preference is not present until the first run. After, its value is set to false. This is used to show the infobar with a more aggressive timeout if it wasn't shown yet.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionEnabled``

  This is the data submission master kill switch. If disabled, no policy is shown or upload takes place, ever.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyNotifiedTime``

  Records the date user was shown the policy. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyAcceptedVersion``

  Records the version of the policy notified to the user. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyBypassNotification``

  Used in tests, it allows to skip the notification check.

``datareporting.policy.currentPolicyVersion``

  Stores the current policy version, overrides the default value defined in TelemetryReportingPolicy.jsm.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion``

  The minimum policy version that is accepted for the current policy. This can be set per channel.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion.channel-NAME``

  This is the only channel-specific version that we currently use for the minimum policy version.

Testing
-------

The following prefs are for testing purpose only.

``toolkit.telemetry.initDelay``

  Delay before initializing telemetry (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.minSubsessionLength``

  Minimum length of a telemetry subsession (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.collectInterval``

  Minimum interval between data collection (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.tickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.idleTickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks when the user is idle (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.idleTimeout``

  Timeout until we decide whether a user is idle or not (seconds).

Commit message:

Bug 1324049 - Implement pref for opening the privacy policy in a background tab on first run instead of showing the data choices infobar. r=gijs

toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/preferences.rst, after:

Preferences
===========

Telemetry behaviour is controlled through the preferences listed here.

Default behaviors
-----------------

Sending only happens on official builds (i.e. with ``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL`` set) with ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` defined.
All other builds drop all outgoing pings, so they will also not retry sending them later.

Preferences
-----------

``toolkit.telemetry.unified``

  This controls whether unified behavior is enabled. If true:

  * Telemetry is always enabled and recording *base* data.
  * Telemetry will send additional ``main`` pings.

``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

  If ``unified`` is off, this controls whether the Telemetry module is enabled.
  If ``unified`` is on, this controls whether to record *extended* data.
  This preference is controlled through the `Preferences` dialog.

  Note that the default value here of this pref depends on the define ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` and the channel.
  If ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` is set, ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT`` gets set, which means this pref will default to ``true``.
  This is overridden by the preferences code on the "beta" channel, the pref also defaults to ``true`` there.

``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``

  Send the data we record if user has consented to FHR. This preference is controlled through the `Preferences` dialog.

``toolkit.telemetry.archive.enabled``

  Allow pings to be archived locally. This can only be enabled if ``unified`` is on.

``toolkit.telemetry.server``

  The server Telemetry pings are sent to.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.level``

  This sets the Telemetry logging verbosity per ``Log.jsm``, with ``Trace`` or ``0`` being the most verbose and the default being ``Warn``.
  By default logging goes only the console service.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.dump``

  Sets whether to dump Telemetry log messages to ``stdout`` too.

Data-choices notification
-------------------------

``toolkit.telemetry.reportingpolicy.firstRun``

  This preference is not present until the first run. After, its value is set to false. This is used to show the infobar with a more aggressive timeout if it wasn't shown yet.

``datareporting.policy.firstRunURL``

  If set, a browser tab will be opened on first run instead of the infobar.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionEnabled``

  This is the data submission master kill switch. If disabled, no policy is shown or upload takes place, ever.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyNotifiedTime``

  Records the date user was shown the policy. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyAcceptedVersion``

  Records the version of the policy notified to the user. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyBypassNotification``

  Used in tests, it allows to skip the notification check.

``datareporting.policy.currentPolicyVersion``

  Stores the current policy version, overrides the default value defined in TelemetryReportingPolicy.jsm.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion``

  The minimum policy version that is accepted for the current policy. This can be set per channel.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion.channel-NAME``

  This is the only channel-specific version that we currently use for the minimum policy version.

Testing
-------

The following prefs are for testing purpose only.

``toolkit.telemetry.initDelay``

  Delay before initializing telemetry (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.minSubsessionLength``

  Minimum length of a telemetry subsession (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.collectInterval``

  Minimum interval between data collection (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.tickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.idleTickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks when the user is idle (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.idleTimeout``

  Timeout until we decide whether a user is idle or not (seconds).
